-: Welcome back.
So in this lecture we are going to work on step two
step three and then step four.
So as part of step two we are supposed to have
the metrics server installed on our Kubernetes cluster.
So metrics server we have already installed as part of HPA.
So if you want we can go ahead and then check
that Kubectl, get ports, hyphen N, which is in kube-system.
We have it.
So let's verify in kube-system
and we can see that metric servers happen running.
So the next thing is we are going to
deploy the vertical port auto scaler.
So to do that we need to get clone auto scaler
Kubernetes Auto scaler, git repository.
So we will come out of our existing git repository
and I'll try to create a
VPA demo folder
and we'll go inside that
and then we'll git clone this repository, right?
So once that is done we are going inside the VPA folder
which is nothing but vertical pod auto scaler folder
and then we are going to install it directly.
So to uninstall it is VPA down dot
and to install it is VPA up dot.
So let's wait for it to complete.
So we went inside CD auto scaler, vertical port auto scaler
and then to install we are going to use this option, right?
So let it install everything.
And once installed we are going to verify the ports present
inside the kube-system name space.
So it installed.
So let's go ahead
and then verify the VPA ports in kube-system, right?
So now we can see VPA admission controller
VPA recommender and then VPA updater.
So three parts are already running now
as part of whatever the VPA deployment we have done.
So in our next step we are going to review
and then deploy our application manifest
which is deployment and then service inside that.
Those are going to be a standard deployment
and then service.
So in EKS VPA, vertical port auto scaler
we have two kube manifests.
Inside that demo application is zero one
and original VPA manifest is zero two.
Okay? So it is a standard kube Nginx deployment.
Simple kube Nginx file with replicas as four
and to export it with NodePort service
and internal Cluster IP service also
It will be available like this
but this one you can access externally only
if your cluster node groups are present
on the public subnets.
So my cluster currently is in private subnets.
You really don't need to access it externally
to generate the load.
We generate the load using Apache bench container
and then pod inside the cluster only.
So, but just for a names sake
I have created it as a standard so we can leave it as is.
So now the important point to discuss inside
this is the resources section, okay?
So in the resources section
for vertical port auto scaler we are telling means
like we are telling the Kubernetes that we are going to
request a CPU as this much and then memory as this much.
So these are very, very low
if you see for any container or any port, right?
So these are very, very low five mb.
And then what is
0.05005 CPU
which is very, very less, okay?
But we are going to put very minimal to our application
and then how our auto scaler vertical port
auto scaler is going to performance tune your application
when we put the lot of load on our application
we are going to see that.
So to practically demonstrate it, we have reduced
our memory and CPU requests
for our deployment manifest to be very minimal.
So now let's go back here.
So that's what I want to discuss as part of this sections.
So now these are the requests
and the limits we define in our VPA definition.
So when we are doing the VPA definition
we are going to discuss that.
So let's go ahead and then deploy this.
So this information I need to update a little bit
just give me one second.
I just changed the path
of our application where it is located.
Okay? So it is present in kube manifest
and then my file is zero one VPN demo application dot YAML.
So let me go ahead and then deploy this
so I can deploy from wherever it is kubectl, right?
So we can deploy it. Okay?
So only one thing is like we are not
in that location
we went to the vertical port auto scaler
we have cloned the repository and present there, right?
So we'll go back to our course repository, right?
So I'll come back
and I'll go to my course repository main folder.
And inside that I need to go to 16, which is nothing
but EKS, VPA, vertical part auto scaler, right?
So now I'm going to deploy my application, right?
So this looks good.
So I'll say kubectl, get port SVC,
deploy all the stuff.
Okay, so now if you see we have the VPA demo deployment
four ports are running, okay, all are up and running now
and it's SQL VPA demo service NodePort service with the
internal Cluster IP with 80 also available for us.
So deployment four by four ready?
So now describe one of the pod here.
Okay, kubectl describe and then pod.
And then this is the pod we want to describe. Okay?
So I'll say any one
of the pod from our VPA demo, right?
So if you see here the current information
whatever we see is it has requested five M
and then five MI for our CPU and then memory.
So just make a note of that
and then we'll see later what happens.
So now we have completed the step four also.
And this one if you want to access your application
you can access only if your application is
in public subnet means like if you're cluster node group.
So our cluster node group is in git nodes hyphen
oh, why it is in private subnets.
So we really don't have any external IP, so that's fine.
Okay? So this step is optional.
Why? Because our test is mainly related to VPA resources.
We can ignore this.
Okay? So in our next lecture we'll discuss
about create and deploy our VPA manifest
our review and then deploy our VPA manifest
and then move on with the next steps.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.